[MUSIC]
The final section of text
functions is data validation.
Data Validation is a tool,
that allows the user to limit potential
inputs during data entry.
Data Validation ensures that all
data entered within the defined cell
matches the validation criteria
that was previously defined.
And if it doesn't,
Excel will return an error.
Restricting input criteria helps ensure
data quality, and reduce the risk for
potential formula errors, and limits the
need for data cleansing prior to analysis.
Data validation can be found under
the data tab of the Excel ribbon.
If we navigate to this tab, and
select data validation, a pop-up
appears, showing us the different Data
Validation options that are available.
Using this toolbox, we can define what
type of data we want to restrict,
a specific cell arranged to.
There are several options provided.
For example, whole numbers between 0 and
100 or dates within the last year.
The input message tab gives us the ability
to define a custom message that appears
when someone clicks on the cell range
that the data validation applies to.
This can be used to give the user some
additional details around what type of
data is allowed in a cell range.
The error alert tab allows us to define
an error message that is displayed when
a user tries to enter data into the cell
range that is outside the pre-defined
data validation criteria.
We're going to walk through an example of
how to use Data Validation functionality
to ensure data standardization in a table.
As any data analysis can attest,
data fields can be highly variable,
if they're not controlled.
For example, when a user is asked
to provide a state they can
assume they need to provide the full state
name, the first two letters of the state,
the postal zip code, or
the state abbreviation.
In our example,
we're going to rebuild the table,
using Data Validation to ensure the column
input criteria is standardized so
that it can be used for future analysis.
First, we go to cell B30,
and select B30 through B36.
Then, we navigate to the ribbon,
and select Data Validation,
in Settings, select Date under Allow,
since we are entering a date.
Next, we wanted to find,
a range of possible inputs, so
let's select the between option.
We will define the start date as =B16,
which is cell B16,
because this was the earliest
starting date in our sample data.
And we will define the end date as =B14,
that's cell B14,
since this was the latest date,
that items result. Next, select OK.
Next, we will work with
the Months Sold column.
Months range from 1 to 12 in
the standard calendar, and
are rarely represented as decimals,
or fractions.
Therefore, we're going to restrict
the values that represent
months on the whole
numbers between 1 and 12.
In order to do this, let's start by
selecting cells C30 through C36.
Then, we navigate to the Data tab on
the ribbon, and select Data Validation.
In Settings, we're going to select whole
number, and under Allow, we'll put 1
as the first allowable input, and 12,
as the highest allow input, click OK.
In order to standardize the unit price, we
start by selecting, cell E30 through E36.
Then we navigate to the Data tab on
the ribbon, and select Data Validation.
In Settings, we're going to select List,
under Allow.
And as a source, let's enter in 14.50,
9.99, and 9.00,
Because, these are our unit price options.
Additionally, we can
create a list in Excel and
highlight this list in the store
section of the Data Validation.
For this problem, let's now change
the source to equals H30: H32.
You can also do this by selecting and
highlighting H30, through H32.
Let's also navigate to the Error Alert
tab on the Data Validation pop up,
because we want to add an error message if
our user inputs a non-valid unit price.
In the input message,
let's type invalid unit price and
in the title enter unit price, click OK.
Last but not least,
let's look at the Revenue column.
We start by selecting
cell F30 through F36 and
then we navigate to the Data tab on
the ribbon and select Data Validation.
In Settings, we're going to select
Decimal under Allow, because our
total revenue is in US dollars and cents,
which all contain two decimal places.
We note that the minimum cell value is
$1,000 which goes along with our minimum
sales quantity of 100 units.
So we'll restrict inputs to values
greater than 1,000, click OK.
Great job completing data validation for
this table.
Before moving on to completing problem 1B,
take some time to test your
Data Validation criteria, and enter in
values in this Data Validation table.
Notice, when you enter a unit
price that is not on our list,
we receive the input error.
[MUSIC]